# Getting and Cleaning Data - Project ReadMe file

## Assignment Objective

To create one R script called run_analysis.R that does the following.

* Merges the training and the test sets to create one data set.
* Extracts only the measurements on the mean and standard deviation for each measurement.
* Uses descriptive activity names to name the activities in the data set
* Appropriately labels the data set with descriptive variable names.
* From the data set in step 4, creates a second, independent tidy data set with the average of each variable for each activity and each subject.

The resulting tidy data set is stored in the file called tidy_data.txt in the same directory as the run_analysis.R script.

Note: The script will re-use the previously downloaded data if the directory "UCI HAR Datasetdata" is present.

## Original Data Set
The project uses the data set for the UCI Machine Learning Repository
https://d396qusza40orc.cloudfront.net/getdata%2Fprojectfiles%2FUCI%20HAR%20Dataset.zip

The data  represent data collected from the accelerometers from the Samsung Galaxy S smartphone. A full description is available at the site where the data was obtained:
http://archive.ics.uci.edu/ml/datasets/Human+Activity+Recognition+Using+Smartphones

## Resulting Data Set from running run_analysis.R

CodeBook.md describes the data in the dataset generated by the run_analysis.R script and stored in the tidy_data.txt file.

## License (From the original README.txt file)
Use of this dataset in publications must be acknowledged by referencing the following publication [1] 

[1] Davide Anguita, Alessandro Ghio, Luca Oneto, Xavier Parra and Jorge L. Reyes-Ortiz. Human Activity Recognition on Smartphones using a Multiclass Hardware-Friendly Support Vector Machine. International Workshop of Ambient Assisted Living (IWAAL 2012). Vitoria-Gasteiz, Spain. Dec 2012

